---
layout: news
category: news
date: 2020-11-14
version: 0.3.0
title: Version 0.3.0 
summary: Version 0.3.0 available in Maven Central 
---

Occurrent 0.3.0 is now available. The cloud event to MongoDB document mapping has been completely rewritten. This means that event stores and subscriptions no longer requires 
Jackson or the `cloudevents-json-jackson` module. This is possible thanks to the changes in `io.cloudevents:cloudevents-api:2.0.0-milestone4`.
It's also possible to store other types of contents besides JSON (such as `text/xml` or binary data) in the CloudEvent data in the events.    
Big thanks to [Francesco Guardiani](https://github.com/slinkydeveloper) for the initial pull request. Here are all changes:
       
* Upgraded Java Mongo driver from 4.0.4 to 4.1.1
* Upgraded to cloud events 2.0.0-milestone4. This introduces a breaking change since the `CloudEvent` SDK no longer returns a `byte[]` as data but rather a `CloudEventData` interface.
  You need to change your code from:
  
  ```java
  byte[] data = cloudEvent.getData();
  ```           
  
  to 
  
  ```java
  byte[] data = cloudEvent.getData().toBytes();
  ```
* Fixed so that not only JSON data can be used as cloud event data. Now the content-type of the event is taken into consideration, and you can store any kind of data.
* Introduced `org.occurrent.eventstore.mongodb.cloudevent.DocumentCloudEventData`, cloud event data will be represented in this format with loading events from an event store.
  This means that you could check if the `CloudEventData` returned by `cloudEvent.getData()` is instance of `DocumentCloudEventData` and if so extract the 
  underlying `org.bson.Document` that represent the data in the database.      
* Occurrent no longer needs to perform double encoding of the cloud event data if content type is json. Instead of serializing the content manually to a `byte[]` you can
  use either the built-in `JsonCloudEventData` class from the `cloudevents-json-jackson` module, or 
  use the `DocumentCloudEventData` provided by Occurrent to avoid this.
* Upgrading to spring-data-mongodb 3.1.1
* Upgrading to reactor 3.4.0
* The MongoDB event stores no longer needs to depend on the `cloudevents-json-jackson` module since Occurrent now ships with a custom event reader/writer. 
* The MongoDB event subscriptions no longer needs to depend on the `cloudevents-json-jackson` module since Occurrent now ships with a custom event reader/writer. 

Documentation will be updated soon.