---
layout: news
category: news
date: 2020-12-04
version: 0.4.0
title: Version 0.4.0 Released 
summary: Version 0.4.0 available in Maven Central 
---

Occurrent 0.4.0 is now available. The release contains several new features an upgrade to CloudEvent SDK 2.0.0.RC1. The SDK now contains a `PojoCloudEventData` 
type that makes `DocumentCloudEventData`, that was introduced in the previous release of Occurrent, superfluous. Another really important thing is that
the cloud event extensions added automatically by Occurrent (for stream id and stream version) has been renamed from `streamId` and `streamVersion` to `streamid` and `streamversion`.
This is because according to the [cloud event specification](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/master/spec.md#attribute-naming-convention), it's not allowed to have attributes named with camelcase (must be lowercase).

Here are all changes:

* Upgraded to Kotlin 1.4.20
* Upgraded to cloud events 2.0.0.RC1
* Breaking change! The attributes added by the Occurrent cloud event extension has been renamed from "streamId" and "streamVersion" to "streamid" and "streamversion" to comply with the [specification](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/master/spec.md#attribute-naming-convention).
* Added optimized support for `io.cloudevents.core.data.PojoCloudEventData`. Occurrent can convert `PojoCloudEventData` that contains `Map<String, Object>` and `String` efficiently.
* Breaking change! Removed `org.occurrent.eventstore.mongodb.cloudevent.DocumentCloudEventData` since it's no longer needed after the CloudEvent SDK has introduced `PojoCloudEventData`. Use `PojoCloudEventData` and pass the document or preferably, map, to it.
* Removed the `org.occurrent:application-service-blocking-kotlin` module, use `org.occurrent:application-service-blocking` instead. The Kotlin extension functions are provided with that module instead.
* Added partial function application support for Kotlin. Depend on module `org.occurrent:command-composition` and import extension functions from `org.occurrent.application.composition.command.partial`. This means that instead of doing:
    
  ```kotlin                                                
  val playerId = ...
  applicationService.execute(gameId) { events -> 
    Uno.play(events, Timestamp.now(), playerId, DigitCard(Three, Blue))
  }
  ```                                           
  
  you can do:

  ```kotlin                                                
  val playerId = ...
  applicationService.execute(gameId, Uno::play.partial(Timestamp.now(), playerId, DigitCard(Three, Blue))) 
  ```
* Added command composition support for Kotlin. Depend on module `org.occurrent:command-composition` and import extension functions from `org.occurrent.application.composition.command.*`. This means that you 
  can compose two functions like this using the `andThen` (infix) function:

    ```kotlin
    val numberOfPlayers = 4
    val timestamp = Timestamp.now()
    applicationService.execute(gameId, 
        Uno::start.partial(gameId, timestamp, numberOfPlayers) 
                andThen Uno::play.partial(timestamp, player1, DigitCard(Three, Blue)))
    ```  

    In the example above, `start` and `play` will be composed together into a single "command" that will be executed atomically.

    If you have more than two commands, it could be easier to use the `composeCommand` function instead of repeating `andThen`:
                                  
    ```kotlin
    val numberOfPlayers = 4
    val timestamp = Timestamp.now()
    applicationService.execute(gameId, 
        composeCommands(
            Uno::start.partial(gameId, timestamp, numberOfPlayers), 
            Uno::play.partial(timestamp, player1, DigitCard(Three, Blue)),
            Uno::play.partial(timestamp, player2, DigitCard(Four, Blue))
        )
    )
    ```
* Added Kotlin extension functions to the blocking event store. They make it easier to write, read and query the event store with Kotlin `Sequence`'s. Import extension functions from package `org.occurrent.eventstore.api.blocking`.
* Added support for deleting events from event store using a `org.occurrent.filter.Filter`. For example:

    ```java
    eventStoreOperations.delete(streamId("myStream").and(streamVersion(lte(19L)));
    ```
    
    This will delete all events in stream "myStream" that has a version less than or equal to 19. This is useful if you implement "closing the books" or certain types of snapshots, and don't need the old events anymore.
    This has been implemented for all MongoDB event stores (both blocking and reactive) but not for the InMemory event store.