---
layout: news
category: news
date: 2021-08-13
version: 0.11.0
title: Version 0.11.0 Released 
summary: Version 0.11.0 available in Maven Central 
---

Occurrent 0.11.0 is now available with some new features, bug fixes and dependency upgrades. The `GenericApplicationService` implementation now supports specifying a `RetryStrategy`. A default retry strategy is used 
that retries the `WriteConditionNotFulfilledException` for a maximum of 5 times (see changelog below for more details). You can of course disable or change this if you like. 

Changelog:

* Improved error message and version for write condition not fulfilled that may happen when parallel writers write to the same stream at the same time.
* Upgraded to cloud events java sdk to version 2.1.1
* Upgraded to Kotlin 1.5.21
* Added a `mapRetryPredicate` function to `Retry` that easily allows you to map the current retry predicate into a new one. This is useful if you e.g. want to add a predicate to the existing predicate. For example:

    ```java
    // Let's say you have a retry strategy:
    Retry retry = RetryStrategy.exponentialBackoff(Duration.ofMillis(100), Duration.ofSeconds(2), 2.0f).maxAttempts(5).retryIf(WriteConditionNotFulfilledException.class::isInstance);
    // Now you also want to retry if an IllegalArgumentException is thrown:
    retry.mapRetryPredicate(currentRetryPredicate -> currentRetryPredicate.or(IllegalArgument.class::isInstance))
    ```
* The GenericApplicationService now has a RetryStrategy enabled by default. The default retry strategy uses exponential backoff starting with 100 ms and progressively go up to max 2 seconds wait time between
  each retry, if `WriteConditionNotFulfilledException` is caught. It will, by default, only retry 5 times before giving up, rethrowing the original exception. You can override the default strategy
  by calling `new GenericApplicationService(eventStore, cloudEventConverter, retryStrategy)`. Use `new GenericApplicationService(eventStore, cloudEventConverter, RetryStrategy.none())` to revert to previous
  behavior.
* Upgraded spring-boot used in examples to 2.5.3
* Upgraded spring-mongodb to 3.2.3
* Upgraded the mongodb java driver to 4.3.1
* Added ability to write a single event to the event store instead of a stream. For example:

    ```java
    CloudEvent event = ...
    eventStore.write("streamId", event);
    ```
  This has been implemented for both the blocking and reactive event stores.