---
layout: news
category: news
date: 2021-02-20
version: 0.8.0
title: Version 0.8.0 Released 
summary: Version 0.8.0 available in Maven Central 
---

Occurrent 0.8.0 is now available. It contains several important changes, must notably it introduces a better way to sort queries, by making use if the new `org.occurrent.eventstore.api.SortBy` API. 
Sorts can now be done on an arbitrary cloud event field, and they can also be composed:

```java
var sortBy = SortBy.ascending(TIME, STREAM_VERSION);
eventStoreQueries.all(sortBy);
```

Remember that for queries and sorts to be efficient over large data sets, you need a proper index! 

Changelog:

* Only log with "warn" when subscription is restarted due to "ChangeStreamHistoryLost".
* `InMemoryEventStore` now sorts queries by insertion order by default (before "time" was used)
* Added a new default compound index to MongoDB event stores, `{ streamid : 1, streamversion : 1}`. The reason for this is to get the events back in order when reading a stream from the event store _and_ 
  to make this efficient. Previous `$natural` order was used but this would skip the index, making reads slower if you have lots of data.
* Removed the index, `{ streamid : 1, streamversion : -1 }`, from all MongoDB EventStore's. It's no longer needed now that we have `{ streamid : 1, streamversion : 1}`.
* All MongoDB EventStore's now loads the events for a stream by leveraging the new `{ streamid : 1, streamversion : 1}` index.
* `CatchupSubscriptionModel` now sorts by time and then by stream version to allow for a consistent read order (see [MongoDB documentation](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/method/cursor.sort/#sort-consistency)).
  Note that the above is only true _if_ you supply a `TimeBasedSubscriptionPosition` that is _not_ equal to ``TimeBasedSubscriptionPosition.beginningOfTime()` (which is default if no filter is supplied).
* Major change in how you can sort the result from queries. Before you only had four options, "natural" (ascending/descending) and "time" (ascending/descending), now you can specify any support CloudEvent 
  field. This means that e.g. `SortBy.TIME_ASC` has been removed. It has been replaced with the `SortBy` API (`org.occurrent.eventstore.api.SortBy`), that allows you to do e.g.
  
  ```java
  SortBy.time(ASCENDING)
  ```
  
  Sorting can now be composed, e.g.

  ```java
  SortBy.time(ASCENDING).natural(DESCENDING)  
  ```
  
  This has been implemented for all event stores.
* It's now possible to change how `CatchupSubscriptionModel` sorts events read from the event store during catch-up phase. For example:
  
  ```java
  var subscriptionModel = ...
  var eventStore = ..
  var cfg = new CatchupSubscriptionModelConfig(100).catchupPhaseSortBy(SortBy.descending(TIME));
  var catchupSubscriptionModel = CatchupSubscriptionModel(subscriptionModel, eventStore, cfg);  
  ```

  By default, events are sorted by time and then stream version (if two or more events have the same time).