---
layout: news
category: news
date: 2021-03-19
version: 0.9.0
title: Version 0.9.0 Released 
summary: Version 0.9.0 available in Maven Central 
---

Occurrent 0.9.0 is now available with several new features, bug fixes and improvements. Most notably is the [competing consumer support](https://occurrent.org/documentation#competing-consumer-subscription-blocking). 
A competing consumer subscription model wraps another subscription model to allow several subscribers to subscribe to the same subscription. One of the subscribes will get a lock of the subscription
and receive events from it. If a subscriber looses its lock, another subscriber will take over automatically. Another big change is that a new interface, `org.occurrent.subscription.api.blocking.Subscribable`, is introduced that
defines all "subscribe" methods. A `SubscriptionModel` now extends this interface as well as `org.occurrent.subscription.api.blocking.SubscriptionModelLifeCycle`. In application code that onl wants to start subscriptions, you probably want to depend on the `Subscribable`
interface and not `SubscriptionModel`. There are other non-backward compatible changes as well, so make sure to read the changelog below before upgrading.  

Changelog:

* Fixed a bug in `InMemorySubscription` that accidentally pushed `null` values to subscriptions every 500 millis unless an actual event was received.
* Renamed `org.occurrent.subscription.mongodb.spring.blocking.SpringSubscriptionModelConfig` to `org.occurrent.subscription.mongodb.spring.blocking.SpringMongoSubscriptionModelConfig`.
* Upgraded to Kotlin 1.4.31
* All blocking subscriptions now implements the life cycle methods defined in the `org.occurrent.subscription.api.blocking.SubscriptionModelLifeCycle` interface. A new interface, `org.occurrent.subscription.api.blocking.Subscribable`
  has been defined, that contains all "subscribe" methods. You can use this interface in your application if all you want to do is start subscriptions.
* Introduced a new default "StartAt" implementation called "default" (`StartAt.subscriptionModelDefault()`). This is different to `StartAt.now()` in that it will allow the subscription model 
  to choose where to start automatically if you don't want to start at an earlier position.
* Removed the ability to pass a supplier returning `StartAt` to the subscribe methods in `org.occurrent.subscription.api.blocking.Subscribable` interface. Instead, use `StartAt.dynamic(supplier)` to achieve the same result.
* Upgraded to CloudEvents Java SDK 2.0.0
* Waiting for internal message listener to be shutdown when stopping `SpringMongoSubscriptionModel`.
* Using a `org.springframework.scheduling.concurrent.ThreadPoolTaskExecutor` as executor in `SpringMongoSubscriptionModel` instead of the default `org.springframework.core.task.SimpleAsyncTaskExecutor`. 
  The reason for this is that the `DefaultMessageListenerContainer` used internally in `SpringMongoSubscriptionModel` will wait for all threads in the `ThreadPoolTaskExecutor` to stop when stopping the
  `SpringMongoSubscriptionModel` instance. Otherwise, a race conditions can occur when stopping and then immediately starting a `SpringMongoSubscriptionModel`.
* Introducing competing consumer support! A competing consumer subscription model wraps another subscription model to allow several subscribers to subscribe to the same subscription. One of the subscribes will get a lock of the subscription
  and receive events from it. If a subscriber looses its lock, another subscriber will take over automatically. To achieve distributed locking, the subscription model uses a `org.occurrent.subscription.api.blocking.CompetingConsumerStrategy` to
  support different algorithms. You can write custom algorithms by implementing this interface yourself. Here's an example of how to use the `CompetingConsumerSubscriptionModel`. First add the `org.occurrent:competing-consumer-subscription` module to 
  classpath. This example uses the `NativeMongoLeaseCompetingConsumerStrategy` from module `org.occurrent:subscription-mongodb-native-blocking-competing-consumer-strategy`. It also wraps the [DurableSubscriptionModel](https://occurrent.org/documentation#durable-subscriptions-blocking) 
  which in turn wraps the [Native MongoDB](https://occurrent.org/documentation#blocking-subscription-using-the-native-java-mongodb-driver) subscription model.
  
  ```java
  MongoDatabase mongoDatabase = mongoClient.getDatabase("some-database");
  SubscriptionPositionStorage positionStorage = NativeMongoSubscriptionPositionStorage(mongoDatabase, "position-storage");
  SubscriptionModel wrappedSubscriptionModel = new DurableSubscriptionModel(new NativeMongoSubscriptionModel(mongoDatabase, "events", TimeRepresentation.DATE), positionStorage);
     // Create the CompetingConsumerSubscriptionModel
  NativeMongoLeaseCompetingConsumerStrategy competingConsumerStrategy = NativeMongoLeaseCompetingConsumerStrategy.withDefaults(mongoDatabase);
  CompetingConsumerSubscriptionModel competingConsumerSubscriptionModel = new CompetingConsumerSubscriptionModel(wrappedSubscriptionModel, competingConsumerStrategy);
     // Now subscribe!
  competingConsumerSubscriptionModel.subscribe("subscriptionId", type("SomeEvent"));
  ```
  
  If the above code is executed on multiple nodes/processes, then only *one* subscriber will receive events.
