---
layout: news
category: news
date: 2021-01-31
version: 0.7.0
title: Version 0.7.0 Released 
summary: Version 0.7.0 available in Maven Central 
---

Occurrent 0.7.0 is now available. It introduces several new methods to the (blocking) subscription model implementations.
These methods are available in the new [SubscriptionModelLifeCycle](https://occurrent.org/documentation#subscription-life-cycle--testing-blocking) interface.
It allows canceling, pausing and resuming individual subscriptions. 
You can also stop an entire subscription model temporarily (`stop`) and restart it later (`start`).
This is really useful when writing integration tests. For example, if you want to write events to the event store _without_ triggering all 
subscriptions listening to the events. The life cycle methods allows you to selectively start/stop individual subscriptions so that you can (integration) test them in isolation.

Another big change is the much improved [RetryStrategy](https://occurrent.org/documentation#retry-configuration-blocking). You can now configure max attempts, a retry predicate, error listener as well as the backoff strategy.
Retry is provided in its own module, `org.occurrent:retry`, but many modules already depend on this module transitively. Here's an example:
  
```java
RetryStrategy retryStrategy = RetryStrategy.exponentialBackoff(Duration.ofMillis(50), Duration.ofMillis(200), 2.0)
                                 .retryIf(throwable -> throwable instanceof OptimisticLockingException)
                                 .maxAttempts(5)
                                 .onError((info, throwable) -> log.warn("Caught exception {}, will retry in {} millis")), throwable.class.getSimpleName(), info.getDuration().toMillis()));

retryStrategy.execute(Something::somethingThing);  
``` 

Changes are:

* Introduced many more life-cycle methods to blocking subscription models. It's now possible to pause/resume individual subscriptions
  as well as starting/stopping _all_ subscriptions. This is useful for testing purposes when you want to write events 
  to the event store without triggering all subscriptions. The subscription models that supports this 
  implements the new `org.occurrent.subscription.api.blocking.SubscriptionModelLifeCycle` interface.
  Supported subscription models are: `InMemorySubscriptionModel`, `NativeMongoSubscriptionModel` and `SpringMongoSubscriptionModel`. 
* The `SpringMongoSubscriptionModel` now implements `org.springframework.context.SmartLifecycle`, which means that if you
  define it as a bean, it allows controlling it as a regular Spring life-cycle bean.
* Introduced the `org.occurrent.subscription.api.blocking.DelegatingSubscriptionModel` interface. Subscription models
  that wraps other subscription models and delegates subscriptions to them implements this interface. 
  It contains methods for getting the wrapped subscription model. This is useful for testing
  purposes, if the underlying subscription model needs to stopped/started etc.
* Fixed a bug with command composition that accidentally included the "previous events" when invoking the generated composition function.
* Added more command composition extension functions for Kotlin. You can now compose lists of functions and not only sequences.
* The `SpringMongoSubscriptionModel` now evaluates the "start at" supplier passed to the `subscribe` method each time a subscription is resumed.
* Fixed a bug in `InMemorySubscription` where the `waitUntilStarted(Duration)` method always returned `false`.
* `InMemorySubscription` now really waits for the subscription to start when calling `waitUntilStarted(Duration)` and `waitUntilStarted`.
* Moved the `cancelSubscription` method from the `org.occurrent.subscription.api.blocking.SubscriptionModel` to the 
  `org.occurrent.subscription.api.blocking.SubscriptionModelCancelSubscription` interface. This interface is also extended by
  `org.occurrent.subscription.api.blocking.SubscriptionModelLifeCycle`.
* Introduced a much improved `RetryStrategy`. You can now configure max attempts, a retry predicate, error listener as well as the backoff strategy.
  Retry is provided in its own module, `org.occurrent:retry`, but many modules already depend on this module transitively. Here's an example:

  ```java
  RetryStrategy retryStrategy = RetryStrategy.exponentialBackoff(Duration.ofMillis(50), Duration.ofMillis(200), 2.0)
                                   .retryIf(throwable -> throwable instanceof OptimisticLockingException)
                                   .maxAttempts(5)
                                   .onError((info, throwable) -> log.warn("Caught exception {}, will retry in {} millis")), throwable.class.getSimpleName(), info.getDuration().toMillis()));
  
  retryStrategy.execute(Something::somethingThing);  
  ``` 

  
  `RetryStrategy` is immutable, which means that you can safely do things like this:

  ```java
  RetryStrategy retryStrategy = RetryStrategy.retry().fixed(200).maxAttempts(5);
  // Uses default 200 ms fixed delay
  retryStrategy.execute(() -> Something.something());
  // Use 600 ms fixed delay
  retryStrategy.backoff(fixed(600)).execute(() -> SomethingElse.somethingElse());
  // 200 ms fixed delay again
  retryStrategy.execute(() -> Thing.thing());
  ```