---
layout: news
category: news
date: 2022-11-24
version: 0.15.0
title: Version 0.15.0 Released 
summary: Version 0.15.0 available in Maven Central 
---

Occurrent 0.15.0 is now available and it introduces a new major feature, "deadline scheduling". This is a very handy technique that allows scheduling of "commands" (or data) to be executed in the future.  
Imagine, for example, a multiplayer game, where we want to game to end automatically after 10 hours of inactivity. This means that as soon as a player has made a guess, we’d like to schedule a “timeout game command” to be executed after 10 hours.

The way it works in Occurrent is that you schedule a `org.occurrent.deadline.api.blocking.Deadline` using a `org.occurrent.deadline.api.blocking.DeadlineScheduler` implementation.
The `Deadline` is a date/time in the future when the deadline is up. You also register a `org.occurrent.deadline.api.blocking.DeadlineConsumer` to a 
`org.occurrent.deadline.api.blocking.DeadlineConsumerRegistry` implementation, and it'll be invoked when a deadline is up. For example: 


```java
// In some method we schedule a deadline two hours from now with data "hello world" 
var deadlineId = UUID.randomUUID(); 
var deadlineCategory = "hello-world"; 
var deadline = Deadline.afterHours(2);
deadlineScheduler.schedule(deadlineId, deadlineCategory, deadline, "hello world");

// In some other method, during application startup, we register a deadline consumer to the registry for the "hello-world" deadline category
deadlineConsumerRegistry.register("hello-world", (deadlineId, deadlineCategory, deadline, data) -> System.out.println(data));
```

In the example above, the deadline consumer will print "hello world" after 2 hours.

There are two implementations of `DeadlineScheduler` and `DeadlineConsumerRegistry`, one that uses [JobRunr](https://www.jobrunr.io/) and one in-memory implementation.
Depend on `org.occurrent:deadline-jobrunr:0.15.0` to get the JobRunr implementation, and `org.occurrent:deadline-inmemory:0.15.0` to get the in-memory implementation. 
