---
layout: news
category: news
date: 2023-12-01
version: 0.16.11
title: Version 0.16.11 Released 
summary: Version 0.16.11 available in Maven Central 
---

Occurrent 0.16.11 is released with the following changes:

* Removed `isFinalError` method from `ErrorInfo` used by `RetryStrategy`, use `isLastAttempt()` instead.
* Added `RetryInfo` as argument to the `exec` extension function in `RetryStrategy`.
* Added `retryAttemptException` as an extension property to `org.occurrent.retry.AfterRetryInfo` so that you don't need to use the `getFailedRetryAttemptException` method that returns an `Optional` in the Java interface. Instead, the `retryAttemptException` function returns a `Throwable?`.  Import the extension property from the `org.occurrent.retry.AfterRetryInfoExtensions` file. 
* Added `nextBackoff` as an extension property to `org.occurrent.retry.ErrorInfo` so that you don't need to use the `getBackoffBeforeNextRetryAttempt` method that returns an `Optional` in the Java interface. Instead, the `nextBackoff` function returns a `Duration?`.  Import the extension property from the `org.occurrent.retry.ErrorInfoExtensions` file.
* In the previous version, in the retry strategy module, `onBeforeRetry`, `onAfterRetry`, `onError` etc, accepted a `BiConsumer<Throwable, RetryInfo>`. The arguments have now been reversed, so the types of the BiConsumer is now `BiConsumer<RetryInfo, Throwable>`.
* Added `onRetryableError` method to `RetryStrategy` which you can use to listen to errors that are retryable (i.e. matching the retry predicate). This is a convenience method for `onError` when `isRetryable` is true.
* Added Kotlin extensions to `JacksonCloudEventConverter`. You can import the function `org.occurrent.application.converter.jackson.jacksonCloudEventConverter` and use like this:
  
  ```kotlin
   val objectMapper = ObjectMapper()
   val cloudEventConverter: JacksonCloudEventConverter<MyEvent> =
      jacksonCloudEventConverter(
          objectMapper = objectMapper,
          cloudEventSource = URI.create("urn:myevents"),
          typeMapper = MyCloudEventTypeMapper()
      )
  ```
* Fixed problem with spring-boot autoconfiguration in which it previously failed to create a default cloud event converter if no type mapper was specified explicitly.
* Upgraded to Kotlin 1.9.20
* Added a "deleteAll" method to InMemoryEventStore which is useful for testing
* The `org.occurrent.eventstore.api.WriteConditon` has been converted to a java record.
* Removed the deprecated method "getStreamVersion" in `org.occurrent.eventstore.api.WriteConditon`, use `newStreamVersion()` instead.