---
layout: news
category: news
date: 2024-06-28
version: 0.19.0
title: Version 0.19.0 Released 
summary: Version 0.19.0 available in Maven Central 
---

Occurrent 0.19.0 is released with several improvements and bug fixes. 

## Backward Incompatible Changes

* CatchupSubscriptionModel subscriptions are now started in a background thread by default. Call the "waitUntilStarted()" on the Subscription to make is synchronous.
* When using "in-memory" subscriptions, by doing e.g. `@Subscription(id="myId", startAt = BEGINNING_OF_TIME, resumeBehavior = SAME_AS_START)`, the subscription will be started on all nodes even when a CompetingConsumerSubscriptionModel is used.

## All Changes:

* Made OccurrentAnnotationBeanPostProcessor a static bean in OccurrentMongoAutoConfiguration to avoid Spring warning logs when booting up
* Fixed a bug in OccurrentAnnotationBeanPostProcessor that caused `@Subscription(id="myId", startAt = BEGINNING_OF_TIME)` not to replay events from the beginning of time
* CompetingConsumerSubscriptionModel supports delegating to parent subscription model if the `StartAt` position returns `null`. This means that the CompetingConsumerSubscriptionModel can be bypassed for certain subscriptions. This is useful if you have an in-memory subscription on multiple nodes with a `CompetingConsumerSubscriptionModel`. 
* Added an overloaded method to SubscriptionModelLifeCycle (implemented by most SubscriptionModels) start allows you to start a subscription model without automatically starting all paused subscriptions. This method is called `start` and takes a boolean that tells if all subscriptions should be automatically started when the subscription model starts.
* When using "in-memory" subscriptions, by doing e.g. `@Subscription(id="myId", startAt = BEGINNING_OF_TIME, resumeBehavior = SAME_AS_START)`, the subscription will be started on all nodes even when a CompetingConsumerSubscriptionModel is used.
* The waitUntilStarted() method in the Subscription interface is now a default method.
* CatchupSubscriptionModel subscriptions are now started in a background thread by default. Call the "waitUntilStarted()" on the Subscription to make is synchronous.
* The java.util.Stream returned from SpringMongoEventStore is now automatically closed when the last element is consumed.
* Added ability to specify whether the subscription should "waitUntilStarted" in the Subscriptions DSL. 

## Dependency Upgrades

* Upgraded Spring Boot from 3.2.5 to 3.3.1
* Upgraded Kotlin from 1.9.23 to 2.0.0
* Upgraded Mongo sync driver from 4.11.2 to 5.1.1
* Upgraded Jackson from 2.15.4 to 2.17.1
* Upgraded reactor from 3.6.5 to 3.6.7
* Upgraded jobrunr from 7.1.1 to 7.2.1
* Upgraded amqp-client from 5.20.0 to 5.21.0
* Upgraded spring-aspects from 6.1.1 to 6.1.10
* Upgraded spring-retry from 2.0.3 to 2.0.6
* Upgraded spring-hateoas from 2.2.0 to 2.3.0
* Upgraded spring-data-mongodb from 4.3.0 to 4.3.1
* Upgraded kotlinx-collections-immutable-jvm from 0.3.4 to 0.3.7
* Upgraded arrow-core from 1.2.1 to 1.2.4
* Upgraded jetbrains annotations from 22.0.0 to 24.1.0
* Upgraded logback-classic from 1.4.14 to 1.5.6